---
title: The Reverend Frank Perkovich
---

The man had several nicknames but if you lived on the Iron Range and were of a certain age, you had heard of the guy. Some people called him just “Perk”. Some even bestowed a papal name to him of “Frank the First". I first met him as a young catholic, in that he was the priest at the church I attended as a young boy.

About this time, he was making news as a local celebrity. In the 70’s he had pioneered an event called the Polka Mass. It was a church service that incorporated lively music and lyrics that really appealed to parishioners of the day and included the sale of records and even a group of followers that religiously (no pun intended) would flock to these events. He and a group of singers and musicians, including my eldest Uncle made a journey to perform the mass in St. Peters Square, and included an audience with Pope John Paul II.

As both sides of my family were practicing Catholics, the Reverend knew my entire family quite well, including my Grandfather, an accomplished carpenter and leather smith who like others in the parish helped him whenever they could on projects.

A decade later, I was old enough to join the Choir at my church as a baritone and the opportunity eventually arose for me to become a singer in this group. Therefore, at age 17 I became a Perk-a-Tone. (not kidding, that’s what we were called). The first step was that I was fitted for a red sport coat at the local haberdasher. An honor and a privilege in and of itself. And the fact that “the band” was picking up the tab was a neat twist.  Next, we went on tour playing for some funerals, and polka gathers and meeting some “relatively” elite people the Reverend knew in and around the Midwest and the rust belt, areas where the Polka was part of the fabric of our heritage.

A humorous anecdote came in that when Perk and I would travel around the region passing through small towns, the priest usually knew the funeral director and the supper club owners at each place we stopped (as a practical matter, funerals are a bit of a business, and a priest, a funeral director, and a caterer were often key entrepreneurs at that time in that trade, of funerals).

In any event, my alliance with the Reverend was opening doors. He was unique in that as an established priest, who had a clear level of trust with his parishioners and uniquely, through royalties from the polka mass, shrewd investments and other sources, he had a bit of financial prowess, making him an equal among a small group of the business elite in the region. At his suggestion, we would make trips in his late model Lincoln continental and visit people he knew around the region. He was making social or business calls on these people and having me along for the ride provided him company while granting me access to make future relationships. I understood quite clearly at that time that being associated with a trusted local celebrity was a pathway to opening doors.

Also, geographically at this time, I lived in Minnesota’s Iron Range. As I was building my business the location created a few limitations for me. And the Reverend offered his first investment into my career. He owned a condo in the Crossings in Minneapolis, the metropolitan city 3 hours drive south of my, then, home. Realizing that my aspirations were to move and shake within bigger business pastures, he offered the property too me with wide discretion, to establish a base of operation. This single opportunity became a career-long opportunity I will describe further in “the grass is greener on the other side” philosophy I adopted in my wealth management businesses.

After knowing each other about a year and building up my experience in dealing with investments and the locals, the Reverend offered to me $10,000.00 of his own money to invest into my business. I accepted and with this I had my first wealth management client in 1994.

About the same time, he introduced me to one of his business partners in Grand Rapids Minnesota, the proprietor of a lakeside supper club. The slight Irony of the Reverend having a partnership (or some stake, however it was memorialized) in a supper club was not lost on my, but in this act, he sought my counsel and I was happy to return the favor.

As often happens in the restaurant business, the proprietors receive product from the local food distributors and due to cash flow, or sales tax discrepancies, or whatever the case, the restaurateurs don’t cover their outstanding invoices. This invoice was given a couple of years to age, no doubt due to the credibility of the distinguished partner. Although I will never know the exact circumstances, it was implied to me that this is how the Reverend first came to be involved in the supper club, the proprietor could not cover the debt to the distributor, and the Reverend made a loan, presumably that was later converted to equity. Because of the various circumstances, the Reverend wanted to avoid scandal and hoped that I could lend my hand in the process.

So next we were off to Cloquet Minnesota to visit the owner of the regional food distribution warehouse Upper Lakes foods, and its proprietor Larry R. Sorensen and manager Jim Bradshaw.

Although we were the downtrodden creditor coming in to negotiate some acquiescence on our delinquent debt, “Larry and Jim” as they introduced themselves could not have exuded more class and professionalism. Jim started by giving me a tour of their impressive distribution facility, explaining to me in detail how their test kitchens worked and how they created menus for restaurants, and including a chilly peek into their gymnasium sized coolers. Then, Larry welcomed us into his wood paneled office, while the legend of a smoke-filled executive office had not yet ended here in Cloquet Minnesota.

Almost 30 Years before this meeting, Larry came from the Grocery business to start this distribution house that served the regional restaurants where I lived. Numerous accounts by his industry colleagues and customers recounted how if you really needed help, Upper Lakes Foods and Larry R. Sorensen would give you a fair shake. He built a great business that has survived and thrives to this day.

Our negotiation skills and some swift action among the parties and my newly acquired finance company allowed his partnership to continue, and with that I was introduced to my first distressed debt deal.

During this time, the Reverend was assigned a second parish to preach too. It was a smaller parish in the neighboring community where he was at that time serving as a priest. I casually asked him if the diocese made the assignment to a smaller parish so to give him less responsibility as he was advancing in his age. Delightedly he started laughing with whole spirit and exclaimed “ Of course not, I requested this extra parish. After all the larger the flock, the more sheep there are too sheer! ”.

Years passed, as these things do, and I had moved on to doing business around the world, but I did have an opportunity to visit the Reverend again at his 80th and 87th birthday. He clearly had fading memory by this time about how he helped me to get my start, acts that were just the way he operated, as part of his daily life, but I will forever be grateful to how fortunate I was to have learned what I learned from him.


## Grass is Greener on the Other Side philosophy:

When I first started seeking investors on the Iron Range, the most successful entrepreneurs that I met were convinced that if there were any good deals on the Iron Range they already knew about them (hence the reason they were already rich). Then when I started doing business in the Twin Cities metro area, not unreasonably, the people I met there also felt the same way…if there were deals to be had in the Twin Cities, they already knew about them, so what new things would I really have to offer them.

Well, this inspired a natural and simple idea. The people on the Iron Range knew about deals on the Iron Range, but they were not as privy to deals that I learned about in the Twin Cities. And the same was clearly true about the opposite. Therefore, by having my feet on the ground in both locations, I was able to broker deals between the two locations and add value to both parties to the transactions.

As the wealth management aspects of my career advanced, it became clear that this “grass is greener” philosophy was a transferable story to people all around the world. When I began managing money for foreign clients, it was clear that clients who had succeeded in creating wealth in their own back yard, be that an industry or a country, where always convinced that they knew about any deals that happened around them, and that the only real opportunities could be found somewhere else, hence their idea that grass was always greener elsewhere. Generally, this is a philosophy that I have never personally adopted. Instead one of my core beliefs is that there is always opportunity in the place you are at. It is just a matter of changing your thinking and finding it, mastering it, and monetizing it.